I'd like to talk about a very common expression in the Bible.
The expression is, I am with you.
13 times, it's attributed to a statement from Jehovah.
Three times, it's something that Jesus said to one or more of His disciples.
Of course, there are dozens of other times that the same sentiment is expressed using similar wording.
Few things in the world equal the joy humans experience than the birth of a child.
As children grow up, they are sometimes exposed to situations that tend to cause nervousness or even fear.
So a parent may occasionally feel compelled to reassure a child, have no fear, I am with you.
Jehovah loves His servants as if they were His children.
Likewise, at John 13, one, Jesus' feelings for His disciples are well expressed.
There it says, Jesus, having loved His own who were in the world, loved them to the end.
So when we face fears, trials or causes for anxiety, both our Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus, we assuredly say, I am with you.
Think of the righteous man, Noah.
Genesis 6.9 says that Noah walked with the true God.
There's no doubt that Jehovah was with Noah.
He preserved Him and His family through the flood.
Afterward, Jehovah further proved He was with Noah.
In Genesis 9, Jehovah said, I am now establishing my covenant with you.
Never again will all flesh be destroyed by the waters of a flood.
Jehovah could have made that determination and promised Himself that He wouldn't do that again.
But instead, He reached out to Noah and reassured Him that He was with Him by making the rainbow covenant with Noah and His offspring.
Using similar terminology, Jehovah indicated that He was with Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua and Gideon.
They were all individuals that Jehovah was pleased with, so He reassured them He was with them.
How about a group of people?
Is Jehovah moved to feel the same way toward a large crowd of His servants collectively?
Please find with me Exodus 6, verse 6 and 7.
The whole nation of Israel was experiencing severe trials and suffering as slaves in Egypt.
Notice Jehovah's reassurance to the fast number of people.
Verse 6 and 7, state, therefore, say to the Israelites, I am Jehovah and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians and rescue you from their slavery and I will reclaim you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments.
And I will take you in as my people and I will be your God and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah your God who is bringing you out from under the burdens of Egypt.
If that great mixed group of people would follow His leadings, He said He'd take them in, He would be their God.
What was He saying? He was reassuring them.
I will be with you.
And He was, for 40 years in the wilderness, He was with them, feeding them, providing water for them, ensuring their clothes and sandals would not weigh out, protecting them from poisonous snakes and so forth.
And later, when entering the land of promise, He protected them during enemy warfare.
Jehovah promised to be with and to support the kings of Israel as long as they heeded His commandments and direction.
King Solomon was told, Jehovah, you God will not desert you or abandon you but He will be with you.
King Asa was informed, Jehovah is with you as long as you remain with Him.
When faced with overwhelming enemy forces, King Jehosephat was told, tomorrow go out against them and Jehovah will be with you.
Jehovah also proved to be with the many prophets that he sent out in his name, just one example is Jeremiah.
Imagine if you had Jeremiah's assignment, suppose you had been directed to deliver a scathing denunciation and judgment against wicked kings, corrupt priests and false prophets, how would you feel?
Underqualified? Would you feel like a little child challenging a whole group of evil grown-ups?
Notice how Jeremiah felt as he expressed himself at Jeremiah chapter 1 verse 6.
But I said, alas or so in Lord Jehovah, I do not know how to speak for I am just a boy.
What were Jehovah's reassuring words in reply?
Jeremiah 1, 8 and 9, do not be afraid because of their appearance for I am with you to save you, declares Jehovah.
Then Jehovah stretched out his hand and touched my mouth and Jehovah said to me, I have put my words in your mouth.
If Jehovah put the words that you were to say in your mouth, you'd no longer feel like a little child, would you?
We don't think of Jeremiah as being an incredible Superman, he was a human like us.
It's of interest that though Jeremiah lived in another time and place, he faced situations similar to those we face.
We interact with different types of people in our daily life at work and at school, some of them can be intimidating.
And like Jeremiah, Jehovah has commissioned us to go to strangers and preach.
We share the good news of the kingdom.
Some are interested, others are just plain apathetic.
But at times we may come across someone who is angry and may even be threatening.
This is the time to remember Jeremiah.
Though initially timid, he courageously faced the challenge of an intimidating response.
How did he rally to the occasion?
It was because Jehovah had reassured him, I am with you.
He said, I have put my words in your mouth.
Does Jehovah do something similar for us?
Yes.
Long after Jeremiah and the other faithful ones that were recorded in the Hebrew Scriptures came and went,
Jehovah has proved to be with true Christians both past and present.
Find with me John chapter 8.
Think of Jesus.
It's true he was a perfect man, but did Jehovah leave him all alone?
Did John 816, what did Jesus himself say?
And yet even if I do judge, my judgment is truthful because I am not alone, but the father who sent me is with me.
We might be thinking of that intimidating person in the ministry.
Even if you are facing the person without the fellow witness standing beside you,
are you really all alone?
Jesus knew that at the most stressful and emotionally draining time during his human life,
his disciples would leave him all alone, but was he really alone?
Let's read the inspired account at John 1632.
Again, these are Jesus' own words.
Look, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when each one of you will be scattered to his own house,
and you will leave me alone, but I am not alone because the father is with me.
Jesus was not alone during his most anxious moments, Jehovah was with him.
If you think you are alone standing at the door of an irritated householder, think again.
Jehovah is with you.
You have more with you than if you had your whole congregation standing in the persons front yard.
Well, why did Jesus share this precious insight with us?
Look at the next verse.
Jesus explains his reason for saying what he did, John 1633.
I have said these things to you so that by means of me you may have peace.
In the world you will have tribulation, but take courage, I have conquered the world.
We thank Jesus for addressing our fears and concerns when giving a witness.
Instead of trembling with fear, he shared his confidence in Jehovah's support so that we may have peace.
He acknowledged that we would face tribulation, but he said we could look at his example and have courage to deal with the tribulation.
Why?
Jesus said in verse 32, it was because the Father was with him.
Do you recall that Jehovah told Jeremiah, I have put my words in your mouth, can Jehovah do the same for us when we are opposed by unbelievers?
The Christian Greek scriptures answer with a resounding yes.
Let's follow along with the reading of the book of Mark chapter 13.
And please notice that the setting Jesus describes is the ministry preaching the good news.
Maybe you have had a good morning in service, but then you take one more door.
The person is irate and even calls the police.
What should you do?
What will you say when the police arrive?
You don't have to be overly concerned.
Why not?
Because similar to Jeremiah, Jehovah will in effect put his words in your mouth.
Mark 13, 10 and 11 says,
also in all the nations, the good news has to be preached first.
And when they are taking you to hand you over, do not be anxious beforehand about what to say.
But whatever is given to you in that hour, say this, for you are not the one speaking, but the Holy Spirit is.
By this, do we mean that Jehovah will miraculously put words in your mouth for you to say?
Not necessarily.
Did you notice verse 11 said that the Holy Spirit is the one speaking?
You have been taught the basis for your faith from the scriptures.
And you know the reason that you teach the Bible's message.
That's all stored in your mind.
So what's the Holy Spirit's role when we are in an intimidating situation, when sharing the good news?
Jehovah is with you.
He uses his Holy Spirit to bring to the surface some of those precious gems that might be buried in your mind.
You may be amazed at what you remember when put under pressure by the authorities or even by outright opposers.
In this way, Jehovah is with you.
Add to the fact that Jesus is with you and the disciples making work.
Let's be reminded of this very encouraging thought at Matthew 28, 19 and 20.
Jesus was discussing our commission to preach, teach, and make disciples.
And how does he conclude the Bible book of Matthew?
Let's read Matthew 28 verses 19 and 20.
Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all the things I've commanded you.
And look, I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.
Jesus said that he is with us now when we are making disciples and teaching people the truth,
and he promises he'll support us in this important work until the end of this wicked system of things.
As prophesied during this time of the conclusion of the system, we are being persecuted in different areas of the world.
As the scriptures show Satan and his angels are misleading the entire inhabited earth.
Recently, Jehovah's people have been persecuted in Russia.
But will the persecution succeed in eliminating true worship in that area of the world?
No. Why not?
It's because Jehovah is with them.
He and Jesus promised, I am with you.
Russia did not learn from the past.
It will prove to be the same for them as it was for Nazi Germany under Hitler.
Hitler thought his regime could eradicate true worship and God's people from areas under their control, but they made a big mistake.
While it is true, they murdered some 2,000 brothers.
In the end, the scheme ended up in failure.
Why? Because God was with us, not with them.
God with us, those words have decorated national emblems and even the uniforms of soldiers of pressure and the Sari's Russian Empire.
These words were also on the belts of German troops when they marched into Belgium in the year 1914 of our common era.
But they had it wrong. The sovereign Lord Jehovah was with us, not with them.
He is with all of us now. He will be with us during Armageddon.
He will be with us after Armageddon. He will be with us at the end of the thousand year reign of Christ.
He will be with mankind at the end of hundred thousand years. He will be with humans at the end of hundred million years and at the end of hundred million years times hundred million years.
Jehovah will be with mankind forever and so will Jesus. They are both on record as saying, I am with you.